rocm_docs/tensorflow-build-from-source.md, before:

# TensorFlow ROCm port: Building From Source

## Intro

This instruction provides a starting point for build TensorFlow ROCm port from source.
*Note*: it is recommended to start with a clean Ubuntu 16.04 system

## Install ROCm

Follow steps at [Basic Installation](https://github.com/ROCmSoftwarePlatform/tensorflow-upstream/blob/develop-upstream/rocm_docs/tensorflow-install-basic.md#install-rocm) to install ROCm stack.

Setup environment variables, and add those environment variables at the end of ~/.bashrc 
```
export HCC_HOME=/opt/rocm/hcc
export HIP_PATH=/opt/rocm/hip
export PATH=$HCC_HOME/bin:$HIP_PATH/bin:$PATH
```

## Install required python packages

On Python 2-based systems:
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y \
    python-numpy \
    python-dev \
    python-wheel \
    python-mock \
    python-future \
    python-pip \
    python-yaml \
    python-setuptools && \
    sudo apt-get clean
```

On Python 3-based systems:
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y \
    python3-numpy \
    python3-dev \
    python3-wheel \
    python3-mock \
    python3-future \
    python3-pip \
    python3-yaml \
    python3-setuptools && \
    sudo apt-get clean
```

## Install bazel

```
echo "deb [arch=amd64] http://storage.googleapis.com/bazel-apt stable jdk1.8" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/bazel.list
curl https://bazel.build/bazel-release.pub.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y openjdk-8-jdk openjdk-8-jre unzip && sudo apt-get clean && sudo rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/* 
cd ~/ && wget https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/releases/download/0.24.1/bazel-0.24.1-installer-linux-x86_64.sh
sudo bash ~/bazel*.sh
```

## Build TensorFlow ROCm port

```
# Clone it
cd ~ && git clone -b r1.14-rocm https://github.com/ROCmSoftwarePlatform/tensorflow-upstream.git

# Python 2: Build and install TensorFlow ROCm port pip package
cd ~/tensorflow && ./build_rocm

# Python 3: Build and install TensorFlow ROCm port pip3 package
cd ~/tensorflow && ./build_rocm_python3
```

Commit message:

Update doc on build from source, for relocatable pkg support for ROCm3.1

rocm_docs/tensorflow-build-from-source.md, after:

# TensorFlow ROCm port: Building From Source

## Intro

This instruction provides a starting point for build TensorFlow ROCm port from source.
*Note*: it is recommended to start with a clean Ubuntu 18.04 system

## Install ROCm

Follow steps at [Basic Installation](https://github.com/ROCmSoftwarePlatform/tensorflow-upstream/blob/develop-upstream/rocm_docs/tensorflow-install-basic.md#install-rocm) to install ROCm stack.
*NOTE*: The ROCm3.1 release changes the installation directory structure. If your system has ROCm packages installed from ROCm3.0 or earlier, make sure the old packages are fully purged before upgrade.
For details of the ROCm instructions, please refer to the [ROCm QuickStart Installation Guide](https://github.com/RadeonOpenCompute/ROCm/blob/master/AMD_ROCm_QuickStart_Installation_Guide_v3.1.pdf).

Setup environment variables, and add those environment variables at the end of ~/.bashrc 
```
export ROCM_PATH=/opt/rocm-3.1.0
export HCC_HOME=$ROCM_PATH/hcc
export HIP_PATH=$ROCM_PATH/hip
export PATH=$HCC_HOME/bin:$HIP_PATH/bin:$PATH
export ROCM_TOOLKIT_PATH=$ROCM_PATH
```

## Install required python packages

On Python 3-based systems:
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y \
    python3-numpy \
    python3-dev \
    python3-wheel \
    python3-mock \
    python3-future \
    python3-pip \
    python3-yaml \
    python3-setuptools && \
    sudo apt-get clean
```

## Install bazel

```
echo "deb [arch=amd64] http://storage.googleapis.com/bazel-apt stable jdk1.8" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/bazel.list
curl https://bazel.build/bazel-release.pub.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y openjdk-8-jdk openjdk-8-jre unzip && sudo apt-get clean && sudo rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/* 
cd ~/ && wget https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/releases/download/0.24.1/bazel-0.24.1-installer-linux-x86_64.sh
sudo bash ~/bazel*.sh
```

## Build TensorFlow ROCm port

```
# Clone it
cd ~ && git clone -b r1.15-rocm https://github.com/ROCmSoftwarePlatform/tensorflow-upstream.git

# Python 3: Build and install TensorFlow ROCm port pip3 package
cd ~/tensorflow && ./build_rocm_python3
```
