tensorflow/contrib/lite/java/demo/README.md, before:

# TF Lite Android App

## Building from Source with Bazel

1. Follow the [Bazel steps for the TF Demo App](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#bazel):

  1. [Install Bazel and Android Prerequisites](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#install-bazel-and-android-prerequisites).
     It's easiest with Android Studio.

      - You'll need at least SDK version 23.
      - Make sure to install the latest version of Bazel. Some distributions
        ship with Bazel 0.5.4, which is too old.
      - Bazel requires Android Build Tools `26.0.1` or higher.
      - **Bazel is incompatible with NDK revisions 15 and above,** with revision
        16 being a compile-breaking change. [Download an older version manually
        instead of using the SDK Manager.](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#install-bazel-and-android-prerequisites)
      - You also need to install the Android Support Repository, available
        through Android Studio under `Android SDK Manager -> SDK Tools ->
        Android Support Repository`.

  2. [Edit your `WORKSPACE`](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#edit-workspace)
     to add SDK and NDK targets.

     NOTE: As long as you have the SDK and NDK installed, the `./configure`
     script will create these rules for you. Answer "Yes" when the script asks
     to automatically configure the `./WORKSPACE`.

      - Make sure the `api_level` in `WORKSPACE` is set to an SDK version that
        you have installed.
      - By default, Android Studio will install the SDK to `~/Android/Sdk` and
        the NDK to `~/Android/Sdk/ndk-bundle` (but the NDK should be a manual
        download until Bazel supports NDK 16. See bullet points under (1)).

2. Build the app with Bazel. The demo needs C++11:

  ```shell
  bazel build -c opt --cxxopt='--std=c++11' \
    //tensorflow/contrib/lite/java/demo/app/src/main:TfLiteCameraDemo
  ```

3. Install the demo on a
   [debug-enabled device](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#install):

  ```shell
  adb install bazel-bin/tensorflow/contrib/lite/java/demo/app/src/main/TfLiteCameraDemo.apk
  ```

Commit message:

Update demo app to use nightly TFLite build instead of latest release build.
When the demo app updates to use a backwards-incompatible change to the TFLite Java API at HEAD, it'll fail to build on the old release (which is missing the API change).

Using the nightly build means the demo app will use a relatively fresh TFLite
build with API changes, in addition to other improvements. The user may need to
pull the latest demo code to keep up.

PiperOrigin-RevId: 200672004

tensorflow/contrib/lite/java/demo/README.md, after:

# TF Lite Android App

## Building in Android Studio with TensorFlow Lite AAR from JCenter.
The build.gradle is configured to use TensorFlow Lite's nightly build.

If you see a build error related to compatibility with Tensorflow Lite's Java API (example: method X is
undefined for type Interpreter), there has likely been a backwards compatible
change to the API. You will need to pull new app code that's compatible with the
nightly build and may need to first wait a few days for our external and internal
code to merge.

## Building from Source with Bazel

1. Follow the [Bazel steps for the TF Demo App](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#bazel):

  1. [Install Bazel and Android Prerequisites](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#install-bazel-and-android-prerequisites).
     It's easiest with Android Studio.

      - You'll need at least SDK version 23.
      - Make sure to install the latest version of Bazel. Some distributions
        ship with Bazel 0.5.4, which is too old.
      - Bazel requires Android Build Tools `26.0.1` or higher.
      - **Bazel is incompatible with NDK revisions 15 and above,** with revision
        16 being a compile-breaking change. [Download an older version manually
        instead of using the SDK Manager.](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#install-bazel-and-android-prerequisites)
      - You also need to install the Android Support Repository, available
        through Android Studio under `Android SDK Manager -> SDK Tools ->
        Android Support Repository`.

  2. [Edit your `WORKSPACE`](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#edit-workspace)
     to add SDK and NDK targets.

     NOTE: As long as you have the SDK and NDK installed, the `./configure`
     script will create these rules for you. Answer "Yes" when the script asks
     to automatically configure the `./WORKSPACE`.

      - Make sure the `api_level` in `WORKSPACE` is set to an SDK version that
        you have installed.
      - By default, Android Studio will install the SDK to `~/Android/Sdk` and
        the NDK to `~/Android/Sdk/ndk-bundle` (but the NDK should be a manual
        download until Bazel supports NDK 16. See bullet points under (1)).

2. Build the app with Bazel. The demo needs C++11:

  ```shell
  bazel build -c opt --cxxopt='--std=c++11' \
    //tensorflow/contrib/lite/java/demo/app/src/main:TfLiteCameraDemo
  ```

3. Install the demo on a
   [debug-enabled device](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android#install):

  ```shell
  adb install bazel-bin/tensorflow/contrib/lite/java/demo/app/src/main/TfLiteCameraDemo.apk
  ```
