# Overview <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-overview"></a>


## MNIST For ML Beginners <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-mnist-for-ml-beginners"></a>

If you're new to machine learning, we recommend starting here.  You'll learn
about a classic problem, handwritten digit classification (MNIST), and get a
gentle introduction to multiclass classification.

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/mnist/beginners/index.md)


## Deep MNIST for Experts <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-deep-mnist-for-experts"></a>

If you're already familiar with other deep learning software packages, and are
already familiar with MNIST, this tutorial with give you a very brief primer on
TensorFlow.

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/mnist/pros/index.md)


## TensorFlow Mechanics 101 <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-tensorflow-mechanics-101"></a>

This is a technical tutorial, where we walk you through the details of using
TensorFlow infrastructure to train models at scale.  We use again MNIST as the
example.

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/mnist/tf/index.md)


## Convolutional Neural Networks <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-convolutional-neural-networks"></a>

An introduction to convolutional neural networks using the CIFAR-10 data set.
Convolutional neural nets are particularly tailored to images, since they
exploit translation invariance to yield more compact and effective
representations of visual content.

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/deep_cnn/index.md)


## Vector Representations of Words <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-vector-representations-of-words"></a>

This tutorial motivates why it is useful to learn to represent words as vectors
(called *word embeddings*). It introduces the word2vec model as an efficient
method for learning embeddings. It also covers the high-level details behind
noise-contrastive training methods (the biggest recent advance in training
embeddings).

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/word2vec/index.md)


## Recurrent Neural Networks <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-recurrent-neural-networks"></a>

An introduction to RNNs, wherein we train an LSTM network to predict the next
word in an English sentence.  (A task sometimes called language modeling.)

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/recurrent/index.md)


## Sequence-to-Sequence Models <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-sequence-to-sequence-models"></a>

A follow on to the RNN tutorial, where we assemble a sequence-to-sequence model
for machine translation.  You will learn to build your own English-to-French
translator, entirely machine learned, end-to-end.

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/seq2seq/index.md)


## Mandelbrot Set <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-mandelbrot-set"></a>

TensorFlow can be used for computation that has nothing to do with machine
learning.  Here's a naive implementation of Mandelbrot set visualization.

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/mandelbrot/index.md)


## Partial Differential Equations <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-partial-differential-equations"></a>

As another example of non-machine learning computation, we offer an example of
a naive PDE simulation of raindrops landing on a pond.

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/pdes/index.md)


## MNIST Data Download <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-mnist-data-download"></a>

Details about downloading the MNIST handwritten digits data set.  Exciting
stuff.

[View Tutorial](../tutorials/mnist/download/index.md)


## Visual Object Recognition <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-visual-object-recognition"></a>

We will be releasing our state-of-the-art Inception object recognition model,
complete and already trained.

COMING SOON


## Deep Dream Visual Hallucinations <a class="md-anchor" id="AUTOGENERATED-deep-dream-visual-hallucinations"></a>

Building on the Inception recognition model, we will release a TensorFlow
version of the [Deep Dream](https://github.com/google/deepdream) neural network
visual hallucination software.

COMING SOON


<div class='sections-order' style="display: none;">
<!--
<!-- mnist/beginners/index.md -->
<!-- mnist/pros/index.md -->
<!-- mnist/tf/index.md -->
<!-- deep_cnn/index.md -->
<!-- word2vec/index.md -->
<!-- recurrent/index.md -->
<!-- seq2seq/index.md -->
<!-- mandelbrot/index.md -->
<!-- pdes/index.md -->
<!-- mnist/download/index.md -->
-->
</div>


