tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard6/tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.md, before:

The Laplace distribution with location and scale > 0 parameters.

#### Mathematical details

The PDF of this distribution is:

```f(x | mu, b, b > 0) = 0.5 / b exp(-|x - mu| / b)```

Note that the Laplace distribution can be thought of two exponential
distributions spliced together "back-to-back."
- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.__init__(loc, scale, validate_args=False, allow_nan_stats=True, name='Laplace')` {#Laplace.__init__}

Construct Laplace distribution with parameters `loc` and `scale`.

The parameters `loc` and `scale` must be shaped in a way that supports
broadcasting (e.g., `loc / scale` is a valid operation).

##### Args:


*  <b>`loc`</b>: Floating point tensor which characterizes the location (center)
    of the distribution.
*  <b>`scale`</b>: Positive floating point tensor which characterizes the spread of
    the distribution.
*  <b>`validate_args`</b>: `Boolean`, default `False`.  Whether to validate input
    with asserts.  If `validate_args` is `False`, and the inputs are
    invalid, correct behavior is not guaranteed.
*  <b>`allow_nan_stats`</b>: `Boolean`, default `True`.  If `False`, raise an
    exception if a statistic (e.g. mean/mode/etc...) is undefined for any
    batch member.  If `True`, batch members with valid parameters leading to
    undefined statistics will return NaN for this statistic.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give Ops created by the initializer.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if `loc` and `scale` are of different dtype.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.allow_nan_stats` {#Laplace.allow_nan_stats}

Python boolean describing behavior when a stat is undefined.

Stats return +/- infinity when it makes sense.  E.g., the variance
of a Cauchy distribution is infinity.  However, sometimes the
statistic is undefined, e.g., if a distribution's pdf does not achieve a
maximum within the support of the distribution, the mode is undefined.
If the mean is undefined, then by definition the variance is undefined.
E.g. the mean for Student's T for df = 1 is undefined (no clear way to say
it is either + or - infinity), so the variance = E[(X - mean)^2] is also
undefined.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`allow_nan_stats`</b>: Python boolean.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.batch_shape(name='batch_shape')` {#Laplace.batch_shape}

Shape of a single sample from a single event index as a 1-D `Tensor`.

The product of the dimensions of the `batch_shape` is the number of
independent distributions of this kind the instance represents.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: name to give to the op

##### Returns:


*  <b>`batch_shape`</b>: `Tensor`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.cdf(value, name='cdf')` {#Laplace.cdf}

Cumulative distribution function.

Given random variable `X`, the cumulative distribution function `cdf` is:

```
cdf(x) := P[X <= x]
```

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`cdf`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.copy(**override_parameters_kwargs)` {#Laplace.copy}

Creates a deep copy of the distribution.

Note: the copy distribution may continue to depend on the original
intialization arguments.

##### Args:


*  <b>`**override_parameters_kwargs`</b>: String/value dictionary of initialization
    arguments to override with new values.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`distribution`</b>: A new instance of `type(self)` intitialized from the union
    of self.parameters and override_parameters_kwargs, i.e.,
    `dict(self.parameters, **override_parameters_kwargs)`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.covariance(name='covariance')` {#Laplace.covariance}

Covariance.

Covariance is (possibly) defined only for non-scalar-event distributions.

For example, for a length-`k`, vector-valued distribution, it is calculated
as,

```none
Cov[i, j] = Covariance(X_i, X_j) = E[(X_i - E[X_i]) (X_j - E[X_j])]
```

where `Cov` is a (batch of) `k x k` matrix, `0 <= (i, j) < k`, and `E`
denotes expectation.

Alternatively, for non-vector, multivariate distributions (e.g.,
matrix-valued, Wishart), `Covariance` shall return a (batch of) matrices
under some vectorization of the events, i.e.,

```none
Cov[i, j] = Covariance(Vec(X)_i, Vec(X)_j) = [as above]
````

where `Cov` is a (batch of) `k' x k'` matrices,
`0 <= (i, j) < k' = reduce_prod(event_shape)`, and `Vec` is some function
mapping indices of this distribution's event dimensions to indices of a
length-`k'` vector.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`covariance`</b>: Floating-point `Tensor` with shape `[B1, ..., Bn, k', k']`
    where the first `n` dimensions are batch coordinates and
    `k' = reduce_prod(self.event_shape)`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.dtype` {#Laplace.dtype}

The `DType` of `Tensor`s handled by this `Distribution`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.entropy(name='entropy')` {#Laplace.entropy}

Shannon entropy in nats.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.event_shape(name='event_shape')` {#Laplace.event_shape}

Shape of a single sample from a single batch as a 1-D int32 `Tensor`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: name to give to the op

##### Returns:


*  <b>`event_shape`</b>: `Tensor`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.get_batch_shape()` {#Laplace.get_batch_shape}

Shape of a single sample from a single event index as a `TensorShape`.

Same meaning as `batch_shape`. May be only partially defined.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`batch_shape`</b>: `TensorShape`, possibly unknown.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.get_event_shape()` {#Laplace.get_event_shape}

Shape of a single sample from a single batch as a `TensorShape`.

Same meaning as `event_shape`. May be only partially defined.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`event_shape`</b>: `TensorShape`, possibly unknown.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.is_continuous` {#Laplace.is_continuous}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.is_scalar_batch(name='is_scalar_batch')` {#Laplace.is_scalar_batch}

Indicates that `batch_shape == []`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`is_scalar_batch`</b>: `Boolean` `scalar` `Tensor`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.is_scalar_event(name='is_scalar_event')` {#Laplace.is_scalar_event}

Indicates that `event_shape == []`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`is_scalar_event`</b>: `Boolean` `scalar` `Tensor`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.loc` {#Laplace.loc}

Distribution parameter for the location.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_cdf(value, name='log_cdf')` {#Laplace.log_cdf}

Log cumulative distribution function.

Given random variable `X`, the cumulative distribution function `cdf` is:

```
log_cdf(x) := Log[ P[X <= x] ]
```

Often, a numerical approximation can be used for `log_cdf(x)` that yields
a more accurate answer than simply taking the logarithm of the `cdf` when
`x << -1`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`logcdf`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_pdf(value, name='log_pdf')` {#Laplace.log_pdf}

Log probability density function.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`log_prob`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if not `is_continuous`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_pmf(value, name='log_pmf')` {#Laplace.log_pmf}

Log probability mass function.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`log_pmf`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if `is_continuous`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_prob(value, name='log_prob')` {#Laplace.log_prob}

Log probability density/mass function (depending on `is_continuous`).

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`log_prob`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_survival_function(value, name='log_survival_function')` {#Laplace.log_survival_function}

Log survival function.

Given random variable `X`, the survival function is defined:

```
log_survival_function(x) = Log[ P[X > x] ]
                         = Log[ 1 - P[X <= x] ]
                         = Log[ 1 - cdf(x) ]
```

Typically, different numerical approximations can be used for the log
survival function, which are more accurate than `1 - cdf(x)` when `x >> 1`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:

  `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with values of type
    `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.mean(name='mean')` {#Laplace.mean}

Mean.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.mode(name='mode')` {#Laplace.mode}

Mode.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.name` {#Laplace.name}

Name prepended to all ops created by this `Distribution`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.param_shapes(cls, sample_shape, name='DistributionParamShapes')` {#Laplace.param_shapes}

Shapes of parameters given the desired shape of a call to `sample()`.

This is a class method that describes what key/value arguments are required
to instantiate the given `Distribution` so that a particular shape is
returned for that instance's call to `sample()`.

Subclasses should override class method `_param_shapes`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`sample_shape`</b>: `Tensor` or python list/tuple. Desired shape of a call to
    `sample()`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: name to prepend ops with.

##### Returns:

  `dict` of parameter name to `Tensor` shapes.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.param_static_shapes(cls, sample_shape)` {#Laplace.param_static_shapes}

param_shapes with static (i.e. `TensorShape`) shapes.

This is a class method that describes what key/value arguments are required
to instantiate the given `Distribution` so that a particular shape is
returned for that instance's call to `sample()`.  Assumes that
the sample's shape is known statically.

Subclasses should override class method `_param_shapes` to return
constant-valued tensors when constant values are fed.

##### Args:


*  <b>`sample_shape`</b>: `TensorShape` or python list/tuple. Desired shape of a call
    to `sample()`.

##### Returns:

  `dict` of parameter name to `TensorShape`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`ValueError`</b>: if `sample_shape` is a `TensorShape` and is not fully defined.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.parameters` {#Laplace.parameters}

Dictionary of parameters used to instantiate this `Distribution`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.pdf(value, name='pdf')` {#Laplace.pdf}

Probability density function.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`prob`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if not `is_continuous`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.pmf(value, name='pmf')` {#Laplace.pmf}

Probability mass function.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`pmf`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if `is_continuous`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.prob(value, name='prob')` {#Laplace.prob}

Probability density/mass function (depending on `is_continuous`).

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`prob`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.reparameterization_type` {#Laplace.reparameterization_type}

Describes how samples from the distribution are reparameterized.

Currently this is one of the static instances
`distributions.FULLY_REPARAMETERIZED`
or `distributions.NOT_REPARAMETERIZED`.

##### Returns:

  An instance of `ReparameterizationType`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.sample(sample_shape=(), seed=None, name='sample')` {#Laplace.sample}

Generate samples of the specified shape.

Note that a call to `sample()` without arguments will generate a single
sample.

##### Args:


*  <b>`sample_shape`</b>: 0D or 1D `int32` `Tensor`. Shape of the generated samples.
*  <b>`seed`</b>: Python integer seed for RNG
*  <b>`name`</b>: name to give to the op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`samples`</b>: a `Tensor` with prepended dimensions `sample_shape`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.scale` {#Laplace.scale}

Distribution parameter for scale.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.stddev(name='stddev')` {#Laplace.stddev}

Standard deviation.

Standard deviation is defined as,

```none
stddev = E[(X - E[X])**2]**0.5
```

where `X` is the random variable associated with this distribution, `E`
denotes expectation, and `stddev.shape = batch_shape + event_shape`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`stddev`</b>: Floating-point `Tensor` with shape identical to
    `batch_shape + event_shape`, i.e., the same shape as `self.mean()`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.survival_function(value, name='survival_function')` {#Laplace.survival_function}

Survival function.

Given random variable `X`, the survival function is defined:

```
survival_function(x) = P[X > x]
                     = 1 - P[X <= x]
                     = 1 - cdf(x).
```

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:

  `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with values of type
    `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.validate_args` {#Laplace.validate_args}

Python boolean indicated possibly expensive checks are enabled.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.variance(name='variance')` {#Laplace.variance}

Variance.

Variance is defined as,

```none
Var = E[(X - E[X])**2]
```

where `X` is the random variable associated with this distribution, `E`
denotes expectation, and `Var.shape = batch_shape + event_shape`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`variance`</b>: Floating-point `Tensor` with shape identical to
    `batch_shape + event_shape`, i.e., the same shape as `self.mean()`.

Commit message:

Update generated Python Op docs. Change: 146044756

tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard6/tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.md, after:

The Laplace distribution with location `loc` and `scale` parameters.

#### Mathematical details

The probability density function (pdf) of this distribution is,

```none
pdf(x; mu, sigma) = exp(-|x - mu| / sigma) / Z
Z = 2 sigma
```

where `loc = mu`, `scale = sigma`, and `Z` is the normalization constant.

Note that the Laplace distribution can be thought of two exponential
distributions spliced together "back-to-back."

The Lpalce distribution is a member of the [location-scale family](
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Location-scale_family), i.e., it can be
constructed as,

```none
X ~ Laplace(loc=0, scale=1)
Y = loc + scale * X
```
- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.__init__(loc, scale, validate_args=False, allow_nan_stats=True, name='Laplace')` {#Laplace.__init__}

Construct Laplace distribution with parameters `loc` and `scale`.

The parameters `loc` and `scale` must be shaped in a way that supports
broadcasting (e.g., `loc / scale` is a valid operation).

##### Args:


*  <b>`loc`</b>: Floating point tensor which characterizes the location (center)
    of the distribution.
*  <b>`scale`</b>: Positive floating point tensor which characterizes the spread of
    the distribution.
*  <b>`validate_args`</b>: Python `Boolean`, default `False`. When `True` distribution
    parameters are checked for validity despite possibly degrading runtime
    performance. When `False` invalid inputs may silently render incorrect
    outputs.
*  <b>`allow_nan_stats`</b>: Python `Boolean`, default `True`. When `True`,
    statistics (e.g., mean, mode, variance) use the value "`NaN`" to
    indicate the result is undefined.  When `False`, an exception is raised
    if one or more of the statistic's batch members are undefined.
*  <b>`name`</b>: `String` name prefixed to Ops created by this class.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if `loc` and `scale` are of different dtype.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.allow_nan_stats` {#Laplace.allow_nan_stats}

Python boolean describing behavior when a stat is undefined.

Stats return +/- infinity when it makes sense.  E.g., the variance
of a Cauchy distribution is infinity.  However, sometimes the
statistic is undefined, e.g., if a distribution's pdf does not achieve a
maximum within the support of the distribution, the mode is undefined.
If the mean is undefined, then by definition the variance is undefined.
E.g. the mean for Student's T for df = 1 is undefined (no clear way to say
it is either + or - infinity), so the variance = E[(X - mean)^2] is also
undefined.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`allow_nan_stats`</b>: Python boolean.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.batch_shape(name='batch_shape')` {#Laplace.batch_shape}

Shape of a single sample from a single event index as a 1-D `Tensor`.

The product of the dimensions of the `batch_shape` is the number of
independent distributions of this kind the instance represents.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: name to give to the op

##### Returns:


*  <b>`batch_shape`</b>: `Tensor`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.cdf(value, name='cdf')` {#Laplace.cdf}

Cumulative distribution function.

Given random variable `X`, the cumulative distribution function `cdf` is:

```
cdf(x) := P[X <= x]
```

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`cdf`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.copy(**override_parameters_kwargs)` {#Laplace.copy}

Creates a deep copy of the distribution.

Note: the copy distribution may continue to depend on the original
intialization arguments.

##### Args:


*  <b>`**override_parameters_kwargs`</b>: String/value dictionary of initialization
    arguments to override with new values.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`distribution`</b>: A new instance of `type(self)` intitialized from the union
    of self.parameters and override_parameters_kwargs, i.e.,
    `dict(self.parameters, **override_parameters_kwargs)`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.covariance(name='covariance')` {#Laplace.covariance}

Covariance.

Covariance is (possibly) defined only for non-scalar-event distributions.

For example, for a length-`k`, vector-valued distribution, it is calculated
as,

```none
Cov[i, j] = Covariance(X_i, X_j) = E[(X_i - E[X_i]) (X_j - E[X_j])]
```

where `Cov` is a (batch of) `k x k` matrix, `0 <= (i, j) < k`, and `E`
denotes expectation.

Alternatively, for non-vector, multivariate distributions (e.g.,
matrix-valued, Wishart), `Covariance` shall return a (batch of) matrices
under some vectorization of the events, i.e.,

```none
Cov[i, j] = Covariance(Vec(X)_i, Vec(X)_j) = [as above]
````

where `Cov` is a (batch of) `k' x k'` matrices,
`0 <= (i, j) < k' = reduce_prod(event_shape)`, and `Vec` is some function
mapping indices of this distribution's event dimensions to indices of a
length-`k'` vector.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`covariance`</b>: Floating-point `Tensor` with shape `[B1, ..., Bn, k', k']`
    where the first `n` dimensions are batch coordinates and
    `k' = reduce_prod(self.event_shape)`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.dtype` {#Laplace.dtype}

The `DType` of `Tensor`s handled by this `Distribution`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.entropy(name='entropy')` {#Laplace.entropy}

Shannon entropy in nats.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.event_shape(name='event_shape')` {#Laplace.event_shape}

Shape of a single sample from a single batch as a 1-D int32 `Tensor`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: name to give to the op

##### Returns:


*  <b>`event_shape`</b>: `Tensor`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.get_batch_shape()` {#Laplace.get_batch_shape}

Shape of a single sample from a single event index as a `TensorShape`.

Same meaning as `batch_shape`. May be only partially defined.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`batch_shape`</b>: `TensorShape`, possibly unknown.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.get_event_shape()` {#Laplace.get_event_shape}

Shape of a single sample from a single batch as a `TensorShape`.

Same meaning as `event_shape`. May be only partially defined.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`event_shape`</b>: `TensorShape`, possibly unknown.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.is_continuous` {#Laplace.is_continuous}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.is_scalar_batch(name='is_scalar_batch')` {#Laplace.is_scalar_batch}

Indicates that `batch_shape == []`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`is_scalar_batch`</b>: `Boolean` `scalar` `Tensor`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.is_scalar_event(name='is_scalar_event')` {#Laplace.is_scalar_event}

Indicates that `event_shape == []`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`is_scalar_event`</b>: `Boolean` `scalar` `Tensor`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.loc` {#Laplace.loc}

Distribution parameter for the location.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_cdf(value, name='log_cdf')` {#Laplace.log_cdf}

Log cumulative distribution function.

Given random variable `X`, the cumulative distribution function `cdf` is:

```
log_cdf(x) := Log[ P[X <= x] ]
```

Often, a numerical approximation can be used for `log_cdf(x)` that yields
a more accurate answer than simply taking the logarithm of the `cdf` when
`x << -1`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`logcdf`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_pdf(value, name='log_pdf')` {#Laplace.log_pdf}

Log probability density function.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`log_prob`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if not `is_continuous`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_pmf(value, name='log_pmf')` {#Laplace.log_pmf}

Log probability mass function.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`log_pmf`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if `is_continuous`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_prob(value, name='log_prob')` {#Laplace.log_prob}

Log probability density/mass function (depending on `is_continuous`).

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`log_prob`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.log_survival_function(value, name='log_survival_function')` {#Laplace.log_survival_function}

Log survival function.

Given random variable `X`, the survival function is defined:

```
log_survival_function(x) = Log[ P[X > x] ]
                         = Log[ 1 - P[X <= x] ]
                         = Log[ 1 - cdf(x) ]
```

Typically, different numerical approximations can be used for the log
survival function, which are more accurate than `1 - cdf(x)` when `x >> 1`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:

  `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with values of type
    `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.mean(name='mean')` {#Laplace.mean}

Mean.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.mode(name='mode')` {#Laplace.mode}

Mode.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.name` {#Laplace.name}

Name prepended to all ops created by this `Distribution`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.param_shapes(cls, sample_shape, name='DistributionParamShapes')` {#Laplace.param_shapes}

Shapes of parameters given the desired shape of a call to `sample()`.

This is a class method that describes what key/value arguments are required
to instantiate the given `Distribution` so that a particular shape is
returned for that instance's call to `sample()`.

Subclasses should override class method `_param_shapes`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`sample_shape`</b>: `Tensor` or python list/tuple. Desired shape of a call to
    `sample()`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: name to prepend ops with.

##### Returns:

  `dict` of parameter name to `Tensor` shapes.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.param_static_shapes(cls, sample_shape)` {#Laplace.param_static_shapes}

param_shapes with static (i.e. `TensorShape`) shapes.

This is a class method that describes what key/value arguments are required
to instantiate the given `Distribution` so that a particular shape is
returned for that instance's call to `sample()`.  Assumes that
the sample's shape is known statically.

Subclasses should override class method `_param_shapes` to return
constant-valued tensors when constant values are fed.

##### Args:


*  <b>`sample_shape`</b>: `TensorShape` or python list/tuple. Desired shape of a call
    to `sample()`.

##### Returns:

  `dict` of parameter name to `TensorShape`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`ValueError`</b>: if `sample_shape` is a `TensorShape` and is not fully defined.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.parameters` {#Laplace.parameters}

Dictionary of parameters used to instantiate this `Distribution`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.pdf(value, name='pdf')` {#Laplace.pdf}

Probability density function.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`prob`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if not `is_continuous`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.pmf(value, name='pmf')` {#Laplace.pmf}

Probability mass function.

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`pmf`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: if `is_continuous`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.prob(value, name='prob')` {#Laplace.prob}

Probability density/mass function (depending on `is_continuous`).

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`prob`</b>: a `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with
    values of type `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.reparameterization_type` {#Laplace.reparameterization_type}

Describes how samples from the distribution are reparameterized.

Currently this is one of the static instances
`distributions.FULLY_REPARAMETERIZED`
or `distributions.NOT_REPARAMETERIZED`.

##### Returns:

  An instance of `ReparameterizationType`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.sample(sample_shape=(), seed=None, name='sample')` {#Laplace.sample}

Generate samples of the specified shape.

Note that a call to `sample()` without arguments will generate a single
sample.

##### Args:


*  <b>`sample_shape`</b>: 0D or 1D `int32` `Tensor`. Shape of the generated samples.
*  <b>`seed`</b>: Python integer seed for RNG
*  <b>`name`</b>: name to give to the op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`samples`</b>: a `Tensor` with prepended dimensions `sample_shape`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.scale` {#Laplace.scale}

Distribution parameter for scale.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.stddev(name='stddev')` {#Laplace.stddev}

Standard deviation.

Standard deviation is defined as,

```none
stddev = E[(X - E[X])**2]**0.5
```

where `X` is the random variable associated with this distribution, `E`
denotes expectation, and `stddev.shape = batch_shape + event_shape`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`stddev`</b>: Floating-point `Tensor` with shape identical to
    `batch_shape + event_shape`, i.e., the same shape as `self.mean()`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.survival_function(value, name='survival_function')` {#Laplace.survival_function}

Survival function.

Given random variable `X`, the survival function is defined:

```
survival_function(x) = P[X > x]
                     = 1 - P[X <= x]
                     = 1 - cdf(x).
```

##### Args:


*  <b>`value`</b>: `float` or `double` `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:

  `Tensor` of shape `sample_shape(x) + self.batch_shape` with values of type
    `self.dtype`.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.validate_args` {#Laplace.validate_args}

Python boolean indicated possibly expensive checks are enabled.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.distributions.Laplace.variance(name='variance')` {#Laplace.variance}

Variance.

Variance is defined as,

```none
Var = E[(X - E[X])**2]
```

where `X` is the random variable associated with this distribution, `E`
denotes expectation, and `Var.shape = batch_shape + event_shape`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`name`</b>: The name to give this op.

##### Returns:


*  <b>`variance`</b>: Floating-point `Tensor` with shape identical to
    `batch_shape + event_shape`, i.e., the same shape as `self.mean()`.
