tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard6/tf.import_graph_def.md, before:

### `tf.import_graph_def(graph_def, input_map=None, return_elements=None, name=None, op_dict=None, producer_op_list=None)` {#import_graph_def}

Imports the TensorFlow graph in `graph_def` into the Python `Graph`.

This function provides a way to import a serialized TensorFlow
[`GraphDef`](https://www.tensorflow.org/code/tensorflow/core/framework/graph.proto)
protocol buffer, and extract individual objects in the `GraphDef` as
[`Tensor`](#Tensor) and [`Operation`](#Operation) objects. See
[`Graph.as_graph_def()`](#Graph.as_graph_def) for a way to create a
`GraphDef` proto.

##### Args:


*  <b>`graph_def`</b>: A `GraphDef` proto containing operations to be imported into
    the default graph.
*  <b>`input_map`</b>: A dictionary mapping input names (as strings) in `graph_def`
    to `Tensor` objects. The values of the named input tensors in the
    imported graph will be re-mapped to the respective `Tensor` values.
*  <b>`return_elements`</b>: A list of strings containing operation names in
    `graph_def` that will be returned as `Operation` objects; and/or
    tensor names in `graph_def` that will be returned as `Tensor` objects.
*  <b>`name`</b>: (Optional.) A prefix that will be prepended to the names in
    `graph_def`. Defaults to `"import"`.
*  <b>`op_dict`</b>: (Optional.) A dictionary mapping op type names to `OpDef` protos.
    Must contain an `OpDef` proto for each op type named in `graph_def`.
    If omitted, uses the `OpDef` protos registered in the global registry.
*  <b>`producer_op_list`</b>: (Optional.) An `OpList` proto with the (possibly stripped)
    list of `OpDef`s used by the producer of the graph. If provided, attrs
    for ops in `graph_def` that are not in `op_dict` that have their default
    value according to `producer_op_list` will be removed. This will allow
    some more `GraphDef`s produced by later binaries to be accepted by
    earlier binaries.

##### Returns:

  A list of `Operation` and/or `Tensor` objects from the imported graph,
  corresponding to the names in `return_elements`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: If `graph_def` is not a `GraphDef` proto,
    `input_map` is not a dictionary mapping strings to `Tensor` objects,
    or `return_elements` is not a list of strings.
*  <b>`ValueError`</b>: If `input_map`, or `return_elements` contains names that
    do not appear in `graph_def`, or `graph_def` is not well-formed (e.g.
    it refers to an unknown tensor).

Commit message:

Update generated Python Op docs. Change: 146921466

tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard6/tf.import_graph_def.md, after:

### `tf.import_graph_def(graph_def, input_map=None, return_elements=None, name=None, op_dict=None, producer_op_list=None)` {#import_graph_def}

Imports the graph from `graph_def` into the current default `Graph`.

This function provides a way to import a serialized TensorFlow
[`GraphDef`](https://www.tensorflow.org/code/tensorflow/core/framework/graph.proto)
protocol buffer, and extract individual objects in the `GraphDef` as
[`Tensor`](#Tensor) and [`Operation`](#Operation) objects. Once extracted,
these objects are placed into the current default `Graph`. See
[`Graph.as_graph_def()`](#Graph.as_graph_def) for a way to create a `GraphDef`
proto.

##### Args:


*  <b>`graph_def`</b>: A `GraphDef` proto containing operations to be imported into
    the default graph.
*  <b>`input_map`</b>: A dictionary mapping input names (as strings) in `graph_def`
    to `Tensor` objects. The values of the named input tensors in the
    imported graph will be re-mapped to the respective `Tensor` values.
*  <b>`return_elements`</b>: A list of strings containing operation names in
    `graph_def` that will be returned as `Operation` objects; and/or
    tensor names in `graph_def` that will be returned as `Tensor` objects.
*  <b>`name`</b>: (Optional.) A prefix that will be prepended to the names in
    `graph_def`. Defaults to `"import"`.
*  <b>`op_dict`</b>: (Optional.) A dictionary mapping op type names to `OpDef` protos.
    Must contain an `OpDef` proto for each op type named in `graph_def`.
    If omitted, uses the `OpDef` protos registered in the global registry.
*  <b>`producer_op_list`</b>: (Optional.) An `OpList` proto with the (possibly stripped)
    list of `OpDef`s used by the producer of the graph. If provided, attrs
    for ops in `graph_def` that are not in `op_dict` that have their default
    value according to `producer_op_list` will be removed. This will allow
    some more `GraphDef`s produced by later binaries to be accepted by
    earlier binaries.

##### Returns:

  A list of `Operation` and/or `Tensor` objects from the imported graph,
  corresponding to the names in `return_elements`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: If `graph_def` is not a `GraphDef` proto,
    `input_map` is not a dictionary mapping strings to `Tensor` objects,
    or `return_elements` is not a list of strings.
*  <b>`ValueError`</b>: If `input_map`, or `return_elements` contains names that
    do not appear in `graph_def`, or `graph_def` is not well-formed (e.g.
    it refers to an unknown tensor).
