tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/contrib.copy_graph.md, before:

<!-- This file is machine generated: DO NOT EDIT! -->

# Copying Graph Elements (contrib)
[TOC]

Functions for copying elements from one graph to another.

## Other Functions and Classes
- - -

### `tf.contrib.copy_graph.copy_op_to_graph(org_instance, to_graph, variables, scope='')` {#copy_op_to_graph}

Given an `Operation` 'org_instance` from one `Graph`,
initializes and returns a copy of it from another `Graph`,
under the specified scope (default `""`).

The copying is done recursively, so any `Operation` whose output
is required to evaluate the `org_instance`, is also copied (unless
already done).

Since `Variable` instances are copied separately, those required
to evaluate `org_instance` must be provided as input.

Args:
org_instance: An `Operation` from some `Graph`. Could be a
    `Placeholder` as well.
to_graph: The `Graph` to copy `org_instance` to.
variables: An iterable of `Variable` instances to copy `org_instance` to.
scope: A scope for the new `Variable` (default `""`).

##### Returns:

    The copied `Operation` from `to_graph`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: If `org_instance` is not an `Operation` or `Tensor`.


- - -

### `tf.contrib.copy_graph.copy_variable_to_graph(org_instance, to_graph, scope='')` {#copy_variable_to_graph}

Given a `Variable` instance from one `Graph`, initializes and returns
a copy of it from another `Graph`, under the specified scope
(default `""`).

Args:
org_instance: A `Variable` from some `Graph`.
to_graph: The `Graph` to copy the `Variable` to.
scope: A scope for the new `Variable` (default `""`).

##### Returns:

    The copied `Variable` from `to_graph`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: If `org_instance` is not a `Variable`.


- - -

### `tf.contrib.copy_graph.get_copied_op(org_instance, graph, scope='')` {#get_copied_op}

Given an `Operation` instance from some `Graph`, returns
its namesake from `graph`, under the specified scope
(default `""`).

If a copy of `org_instance` is present in `graph` under the given
`scope`, it will be returned.

Args:
org_instance: An `Operation` from some `Graph`.
graph: The `Graph` to be searched for a copr of `org_instance`.
scope: The scope `org_instance` is present in.

##### Returns:

    The `Operation` copy from `graph`.

Commit message:

Update generated Python Op docs. Change: 147414471

tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/contrib.copy_graph.md, after:

<!-- This file is machine generated: DO NOT EDIT! -->

# Copying Graph Elements (contrib)
[TOC]

Functions to copy elements between graphs.

See the @{$python/contrib.copy_graph} guide.

## Other Functions and Classes
- - -

### `tf.contrib.copy_graph.copy_op_to_graph(org_instance, to_graph, variables, scope='')` {#copy_op_to_graph}

Given an `Operation` 'org_instance` from one `Graph`,
initializes and returns a copy of it from another `Graph`,
under the specified scope (default `""`).

The copying is done recursively, so any `Operation` whose output
is required to evaluate the `org_instance`, is also copied (unless
already done).

Since `Variable` instances are copied separately, those required
to evaluate `org_instance` must be provided as input.

Args:
org_instance: An `Operation` from some `Graph`. Could be a
    `Placeholder` as well.
to_graph: The `Graph` to copy `org_instance` to.
variables: An iterable of `Variable` instances to copy `org_instance` to.
scope: A scope for the new `Variable` (default `""`).

##### Returns:

    The copied `Operation` from `to_graph`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: If `org_instance` is not an `Operation` or `Tensor`.


- - -

### `tf.contrib.copy_graph.copy_variable_to_graph(org_instance, to_graph, scope='')` {#copy_variable_to_graph}

Given a `Variable` instance from one `Graph`, initializes and returns
a copy of it from another `Graph`, under the specified scope
(default `""`).

Args:
org_instance: A `Variable` from some `Graph`.
to_graph: The `Graph` to copy the `Variable` to.
scope: A scope for the new `Variable` (default `""`).

##### Returns:

    The copied `Variable` from `to_graph`.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`TypeError`</b>: If `org_instance` is not a `Variable`.


- - -

### `tf.contrib.copy_graph.get_copied_op(org_instance, graph, scope='')` {#get_copied_op}

Given an `Operation` instance from some `Graph`, returns
its namesake from `graph`, under the specified scope
(default `""`).

If a copy of `org_instance` is present in `graph` under the given
`scope`, it will be returned.

Args:
org_instance: An `Operation` from some `Graph`.
graph: The `Graph` to be searched for a copr of `org_instance`.
scope: The scope `org_instance` is present in.

##### Returns:

    The `Operation` copy from `graph`.
