tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard0/tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.md, before:

Linear regressor model.

Train a linear regression model to predict label value given observation of
feature values.

Example:

```python
sparse_column_a = sparse_column_with_hash_bucket(...)
sparse_column_b = sparse_column_with_hash_bucket(...)

sparse_feature_a_x_sparse_feature_b = crossed_column(...)

estimator = LinearRegressor(
    feature_columns=[sparse_column_a, sparse_feature_a_x_sparse_feature_b])

# Input builders
def input_fn_train: # returns x, y
  ...
def input_fn_eval: # returns x, y
  ...
estimator.fit(input_fn=input_fn_train)
estimator.evaluate(input_fn=input_fn_eval)
estimator.predict(x=x)
```

Input of `fit` and `evaluate` should have following features,
  otherwise there will be a KeyError:

* if `weight_column_name` is not `None`:
  key=weight_column_name, value=a `Tensor`
* for column in `feature_columns`:
  - if isinstance(column, `SparseColumn`):
      key=column.name, value=a `SparseTensor`
  - if isinstance(column, `WeightedSparseColumn`):
      {key=id column name, value=a `SparseTensor`,
       key=weight column name, value=a `SparseTensor`}
  - if isinstance(column, `RealValuedColumn`):
      key=column.name, value=a `Tensor`
- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.__init__(feature_columns, model_dir=None, weight_column_name=None, optimizer=None, gradient_clip_norm=None, enable_centered_bias=False, label_dimension=1, _joint_weights=False, config=None, feature_engineering_fn=None)` {#LinearRegressor.__init__}

Construct a `LinearRegressor` estimator object.

##### Args:


*  <b>`feature_columns`</b>: An iterable containing all the feature columns used by
    the model. All items in the set should be instances of classes derived
    from `FeatureColumn`.
*  <b>`model_dir`</b>: Directory to save model parameters, graph, etc. This can
    also be used to load checkpoints from the directory into a estimator
    to continue training a previously saved model.
*  <b>`weight_column_name`</b>: A string defining feature column name representing
    weights. It is used to down weight or boost examples during training. It
    will be multiplied by the loss of the example.
*  <b>`optimizer`</b>: An instance of `tf.Optimizer` used to train the model. If
    `None`, will use an Ftrl optimizer.
*  <b>`gradient_clip_norm`</b>: A `float` > 0. If provided, gradients are clipped
    to their global norm with this clipping ratio. See
    `tf.clip_by_global_norm` for more details.
*  <b>`enable_centered_bias`</b>: A bool. If True, estimator will learn a centered
    bias variable for each class. Rest of the model structure learns the
    residual after centered bias.
*  <b>`label_dimension`</b>: Dimension of the label for multilabels. Defaults to 1.
  _joint_weights: If True use a single (possibly partitioned) variable to
    store the weights. It's faster, but requires all feature columns are
    sparse and have the 'sum' combiner. Incompatible with SDCAOptimizer.

*  <b>`config`</b>: `RunConfig` object to configure the runtime settings.
*  <b>`feature_engineering_fn`</b>: Feature engineering function. Takes features and
                    labels which are the output of `input_fn` and
                    returns features and labels which will be fed
                    into the model.

##### Returns:

  A `LinearRegressor` estimator.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.bias_` {#LinearRegressor.bias_}

DEPRECATED FUNCTION

THIS FUNCTION IS DEPRECATED. It will be removed after 2016-10-30.
Instructions for updating:
This method will be removed after the deprecation date. To inspect variables, use get_variable_names() and get_variable_value().


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.config` {#LinearRegressor.config}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.evaluate(x=None, y=None, input_fn=None, feed_fn=None, batch_size=None, steps=None, metrics=None, name=None)` {#LinearRegressor.evaluate}

See evaluable.Evaluable.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.export(export_dir, input_fn=None, input_feature_key=None, use_deprecated_input_fn=True, signature_fn=None, default_batch_size=1, exports_to_keep=None)` {#LinearRegressor.export}

See BaseEstimator.export.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.fit(x=None, y=None, input_fn=None, steps=None, batch_size=None, monitors=None, max_steps=None)` {#LinearRegressor.fit}

See trainable.Trainable.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.get_variable_names()` {#LinearRegressor.get_variable_names}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.get_variable_value(name)` {#LinearRegressor.get_variable_value}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.model_dir` {#LinearRegressor.model_dir}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.predict(*args, **kwargs)` {#LinearRegressor.predict}

Runs inference to determine the predicted class. (deprecated arguments)

SOME ARGUMENTS ARE DEPRECATED. They will be removed after 2016-09-15.
Instructions for updating:
The default behavior of predict() is changing. The default value for
as_iterable will change to True, and then the flag will be removed
altogether. The behavior of this flag is described below.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.weights_` {#LinearRegressor.weights_}

DEPRECATED FUNCTION

THIS FUNCTION IS DEPRECATED. It will be removed after 2016-10-30.
Instructions for updating:
This method will be removed after the deprecation date. To inspect variables, use get_variable_names() and get_variable_value().

Commit message:

Update generated Python Op docs. Change: 140504031

tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard0/tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.md, after:

Linear regressor model.

Train a linear regression model to predict label value given observation of
feature values.

Example:

```python
sparse_column_a = sparse_column_with_hash_bucket(...)
sparse_column_b = sparse_column_with_hash_bucket(...)

sparse_feature_a_x_sparse_feature_b = crossed_column(...)

estimator = LinearRegressor(
    feature_columns=[sparse_column_a, sparse_feature_a_x_sparse_feature_b])

# Input builders
def input_fn_train: # returns x, y
  ...
def input_fn_eval: # returns x, y
  ...
estimator.fit(input_fn=input_fn_train)
estimator.evaluate(input_fn=input_fn_eval)
estimator.predict(x=x)
```

Input of `fit` and `evaluate` should have following features,
  otherwise there will be a KeyError:

* if `weight_column_name` is not `None`:
  key=weight_column_name, value=a `Tensor`
* for column in `feature_columns`:
  - if isinstance(column, `SparseColumn`):
      key=column.name, value=a `SparseTensor`
  - if isinstance(column, `WeightedSparseColumn`):
      {key=id column name, value=a `SparseTensor`,
       key=weight column name, value=a `SparseTensor`}
  - if isinstance(column, `RealValuedColumn`):
      key=column.name, value=a `Tensor`
- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.__init__(feature_columns, model_dir=None, weight_column_name=None, optimizer=None, gradient_clip_norm=None, enable_centered_bias=False, label_dimension=1, _joint_weights=False, config=None, feature_engineering_fn=None)` {#LinearRegressor.__init__}

Construct a `LinearRegressor` estimator object.

##### Args:


*  <b>`feature_columns`</b>: An iterable containing all the feature columns used by
    the model. All items in the set should be instances of classes derived
    from `FeatureColumn`.
*  <b>`model_dir`</b>: Directory to save model parameters, graph, etc. This can
    also be used to load checkpoints from the directory into a estimator
    to continue training a previously saved model.
*  <b>`weight_column_name`</b>: A string defining feature column name representing
    weights. It is used to down weight or boost examples during training. It
    will be multiplied by the loss of the example.
*  <b>`optimizer`</b>: An instance of `tf.Optimizer` used to train the model. If
    `None`, will use an Ftrl optimizer.
*  <b>`gradient_clip_norm`</b>: A `float` > 0. If provided, gradients are clipped
    to their global norm with this clipping ratio. See
    `tf.clip_by_global_norm` for more details.
*  <b>`enable_centered_bias`</b>: A bool. If True, estimator will learn a centered
    bias variable for each class. Rest of the model structure learns the
    residual after centered bias.
*  <b>`label_dimension`</b>: Dimension of the label for multilabels. Defaults to 1.
  _joint_weights: If True use a single (possibly partitioned) variable to
    store the weights. It's faster, but requires all feature columns are
    sparse and have the 'sum' combiner. Incompatible with SDCAOptimizer.

*  <b>`config`</b>: `RunConfig` object to configure the runtime settings.
*  <b>`feature_engineering_fn`</b>: Feature engineering function. Takes features and
                    labels which are the output of `input_fn` and
                    returns features and labels which will be fed
                    into the model.

##### Returns:

  A `LinearRegressor` estimator.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.bias_` {#LinearRegressor.bias_}

DEPRECATED FUNCTION

THIS FUNCTION IS DEPRECATED. It will be removed after 2016-10-30.
Instructions for updating:
This method will be removed after the deprecation date. To inspect variables, use get_variable_names() and get_variable_value().


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.config` {#LinearRegressor.config}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.evaluate(x=None, y=None, input_fn=None, feed_fn=None, batch_size=None, steps=None, metrics=None, name=None)` {#LinearRegressor.evaluate}

See evaluable.Evaluable.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.export(export_dir, input_fn=None, input_feature_key=None, use_deprecated_input_fn=True, signature_fn=None, default_batch_size=1, exports_to_keep=None)` {#LinearRegressor.export}

See BaseEstimator.export.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.export_savedmodel(*args, **kwargs)` {#LinearRegressor.export_savedmodel}

EXPERIMENTAL FUNCTION

THIS FUNCTION IS EXPERIMENTAL. It may change or be removed at any time, and without warning.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.fit(x=None, y=None, input_fn=None, steps=None, batch_size=None, monitors=None, max_steps=None)` {#LinearRegressor.fit}

See trainable.Trainable.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.get_variable_names()` {#LinearRegressor.get_variable_names}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.get_variable_value(name)` {#LinearRegressor.get_variable_value}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.model_dir` {#LinearRegressor.model_dir}




- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.predict(*args, **kwargs)` {#LinearRegressor.predict}

Runs inference to determine the predicted class. (deprecated arguments)

SOME ARGUMENTS ARE DEPRECATED. They will be removed after 2016-09-15.
Instructions for updating:
The default behavior of predict() is changing. The default value for
as_iterable will change to True, and then the flag will be removed
altogether. The behavior of this flag is described below.


- - -

#### `tf.contrib.learn.LinearRegressor.weights_` {#LinearRegressor.weights_}

DEPRECATED FUNCTION

THIS FUNCTION IS DEPRECATED. It will be removed after 2016-10-30.
Instructions for updating:
This method will be removed after the deprecation date. To inspect variables, use get_variable_names() and get_variable_value().
